we begin with breaking news just north
of Rafa two in southern Gaza two Al
jazer journalists have been injured in
an Israeli drone strike correspondent
ishma Abu Omar and cameraman Ahmed Mata
were both hit Mata we understand is in
serious condition they've been
transferred to the European hospital for
treatment mean while in Khan yunas the
Israeli Army has destroyed the northern
gate and the wall of the NASA medical
complex it's besieged those buildings
for weeks NASA is the biggest hospital
in gaza's South Israeli forces have told
everyone Sheltering inside to evacuate
the premises it's thought that hundreds
of displaced Palestinians are there well
let's go straight to our correspondent
on the ground hanim mmud he joins us now
from Rafa in the South honey do we know
how ishma and Ahmed are talk us through
what
happened
yes well another tragedy against a
journalist on the ground covering what's
going on within the past 45 minutes our
colleagues in Al jazer Ahmed Abu Omar Al
jazer correspondent as well as his
cameraman Ahmed mat in Northern rafah
particularly in morage area that's in
the northern part of rafah City they
were in a fieldwork documenting the
living conditions of this place
Palestinian displaced families in that
particular area and documenting the
horror that they have experienced and
lived through within the past 24 hours
as massive air strike targeted a major
parts of Rafa City where close to 100
people have been killed they were
directly targeted by a the missile fired
by a drone uh directly targeting uh them
as they were uh right there covering the
living conditions of this place
Palestinians family in tents and inside
residential homes and in evacuation
zones both of them were rushed to a naar
hospital that's in central RAF about 15
to 20 minutes away from the side that
they were targeted but the fact that a
naar hospital is a midsize Hospital
doesn't have the sufficient uh medical
uh staff number of medical staff to
conduct a proper medical intervention uh
to treat them they were transferred both
of them were transferred right away a
big to a bigger health facility uh in
northern part of the city that on
salahadin road that's the Gaza European
Hospital way where they uh underwent a
immediate surgeries unfortunately uh a
colleague ahed Omar
abar uh went through the surgery where
his leg had to be amput mated as the
shrap Nails fracture uh the bones of his
legs to the point that it was not it was
not
attached properly they had the doctors
had to amputate his leg just to save his
life oh goodness Hy as you were saying
this isn't the first time that
journalists have been targeted in this
war dozens of journalists have been
killed in Gaza since October the 7th and
so many of our colleagues have also lost
their
families
yes this is not the first incident
definitely not the first one and we're
expecting this is not the last one there
is ongoing systematic uh almost
consistent attacks on journalists and uh
there are more than a 100 journalist
since the beginning of this war have
been targeted some were targeted
individually others were their families
were targeted and killed we have
colleagues from Al
like for example mfi who lost his entire
family we have colleague Sam from Al
jaaz as well cameraman who lost his life
as he was covering doing coverage of
situations on the ground along with the
the director of Gaza Bureau Al jaaz
Bureau in in Gaza we have who
experienced the same huro when his
family was targeted and later on his son
was killed as well so these are the just
examples of the ongoing direct attacks
to the point uh it seemed it looks like
there is a certain Joy taken by uh the
military when it inflects so much pain
and so much uh difficulties uh on the
life of everyone here including a
journalist and just um for our viewers
who who might be joining us that the
pictures that you're seeing to the left
of your screen are indeed of our
colleagues and um just moments ago you
saw one of our colleagues there lying on
the ground very very clearly wearing a
flat jacket marked press and we know
that that multiple journalists wearing
press markings throughout this war have
indeed been targeted some killed some
injured hany just the last time we spoke
what a couple of hours ago you were
telling me that you yourself have been
fearing for for the safety of of you and
your family there in Rafa give us an
update on the situation on the ground at
the moment no one clearly is feeling
safe
absolutely no want to surf and as we
said that repeatedly in the past and
we're going to say it one more time
there are no terms to this genocidal War
everyone is a target so far we've seen a
the patterns of killing the pattern of
Destruction that uh reachs to everyone
the elderly the women the children and
also the babies and those who are
suffering from critical Health
complications happen to be also the
target Target of the Israeli military
and its intense bombing campaign it's
just people Sheltering inside
residential homes or those in the
streets and Mak Chef T have been also
the targets of the ongoing uh bombing
campaign to the point it feels like
everyone is a target this word is not
directed to a certain group or a certain
uh set of people but it looks from the
pattern of killing the pattern of
Destruction that everyone is a Target
and has been a Target either by being
eliminated completely or by uh turned
into a disabled person or just turning
more children into orphan as we've seen
the examples of the more than 11,000
children who have been killed or those
that 177,000 have been separated uh from
their families due to the ongoing uh
pounding the situation RA are getting
very very tense by the hours and there
is an expectation as more drones in the
skies of R there would be more bombings
and more destruction within the coming
hours so you are watching these images
to the left of your screen there of our
colleague ishal Abu Omar as we were just
hearing from hany he's had to have his
leg amputated in order to save his life
after this strike we know that it's not
just journalists who've been targeted
you've been watching the medical staff
there working very hard to make sure
that they they can save ish's life we
know that medical staff and hospitals
have become Target in this war to